---
layout: post
title:  "Just think about my adventure in love"
author: sal
categories: [ reddit, wp]
image: assets/images/2.jpg

---

# How to write IELTS TASK 1

[TOC]

## I. Grammar for IELTS

1. As/whereas/while + X + verb, Y + verb.
   While the number of students in HCMC increased to 1 million, that of Ha Noi declined by 10000.
2. Clause, followed by + Noun phrase
   The american budget for education was the highest at $100 billion, followed by France with $50 billion.

## II. Paraphrasing important.

### Time:

- from 1990 to 2000 → between 1990 and 2000/ over a period of 10 years/ over a 10-year period (lúc này year không có “s” nhé, vì cụm “10-year” đóng vai trò là tính từ).
- every year → each year/ per year/ yearly/ annually/ on an annual basis
- every day → each day/ per day/ daily/ on a daily basis
- every week → each week/ per week/ weekly/  on a weekly basis
- during the period shown → during this time frame → during the given period

### Age group:

- people who fell into the 40 to 49 age group = people falling into the 40 to 49 age group
- people who were between 40 and 49 years old = people between 40 and 49 years old
- people who were aged 40 to 49 = people aged 40 to 49.
- 40-to 49-year-old people
- 40-to 49-year-olds
- the 40-49 age group = the 40-49s = People in the age range of 40 to 49
- people who were in their forties = people in their forties.
- People aged 65 or more = elderly/older people aged 65 or over
- People aged 20 or under = people aged 20 or younger

### Nation: 

- Nếu trên đề bài có nêu tên các quốc gia cụ thể, ví dụ “…in the US, Japan and China” → ta sẽ paraphrase thành “in three different countries/nations”.
- Ngược lại, nếu đề bài không đề cập tới các quốc gia cụ thể mà chỉ nói “in three different countries” → ta sẽ nêu tên các quốc gia cụ thể đó ra.
- People in the UK → British people// the British
- People in the USA → American people
- the percentage of → the proportion of

### Economics:

Khi muốn nói sự chi tiêu cho sản phẩm X nào đó, ta có rất nhiều cách viết:

- spending on X → **expenditure** on X// the amount of money spent on X

Nếu bài là phần trăm (%), ta có thể paraphrase:

- the percentage of spending on X → the proportion of spending on X → the proportion of money spent on X

- **unemployment** rates → levels of unemployment// levels of **joblessness**// unemployment levels// the proportion of people who were unemployed// the proportion of people who were **jobless**// the proportion of **people without work**.
- poor people → people living under the poverty line → people living in extreme povery
- poverty rates → poverty levels

Khi muốn nói sự tiêu thụ X ta có các cụm từ: consume

- the consumption of X → the amount of X consumed != the number of X consumed = X consumption

Khi muốn nói sự sản xuất X ta có các cụm từ: produce

- the production of X → the amount of X produced != the number of X produced =  X production.

Lưu ý:

- the amount of + danh từ không đếm được
- the number of + danh từ đếm được số nhiều
- the blind, the deaf, the elderly, the famous, the homeless, the innocent, the jobless, the meek, the old, the poor, the privileged, the rich, the sick, the strong, the underprivileged, the unemployed, the weak, the wealthy, the young,…